---
title: "Michaelmas"
date: 2026-01-06
draft: false
---

# Michaelmas

### Intro

Being a year-long visiting student is strange. If I were here for just one semester, I would not have nearly the same connection to this place. In that world, when I would inevitably suffer, I could simply put my head down and cope: "I'll be out of here soon." (That's how I got through the worst times of Amherst.) Instead, being here for a full year forced me to flip my mindset around: "*because* I'll only be here for 251 days, I need to do xyz and live beautifully." I would be lying if I said I always held true to this, yet even my first-world conception of suffering is so very divine in this city. I've never felt this way before: everything about my life seems imbued with significance–this place is so very sacred.

I came to Oxford on October 5th with low expectations. I knew that the work would be extremely difficult, and the fact that I was merely a single-year visitor ordained that any potential friendship would be fleeting—born from convenience. And being a mediocre Amherst student, surely I would be a minnow at New College, inarguably among the greatest constituent colleges here. Instead of falling in love with people, I first fell in love with the architecture and nature, regularly walking north past Hertford, Wadham, Trinity, Reuben, and Keble, before cutting through the University Parks to reach LMH and Wolfson, before meandering through North Oxford and turning back for home. Before I had something like a friend, I tried to really feel and absorb this gorgeous world around me.

### Tutes

Then the term heated up. I was afraid my Public Economics tutes would go poorly, as my outline was ripped apart in the first tute. My partners were much more capable than me, one of them being a Chinese international with a stunning, graduate-level grasp on mathematical economics (I often nodded along pretending to understand the depth of his mathematical analysis during presentations) and the other being this Union bigwig who worked at Lazard M&A last summer. I feared my (DPhil) tutor would be this serious, strict German, but he ended up being quite helpful and kind.

My Micro tute was less demanding, yet my 48-year-old tutor was immensely knowledgable about the big picture of the world economy, with all the intricate connections. We ended up spending lots of time talking about dedollarisation, commodities market manipulation, AI, and UK banking history. My tute partner for Micro was this extremely self-assured Greek guy, a world-class BP debater who also scored among the highest of all PPE students at Oxford during his Prelims, from what I heard. Even though he was distracted all term recruiting for IB, he still stole the spotlight. There's no way that I can achieve a career as prominent as my tute partners are destined for, but I think I'm okay with that.

### ECs and Misc

On the social end, I quickly realized that going to society events was a bit futile: the people I talked to wouldn't actually be my friends. I would make some sort of awkward small talk, maybe even being asked for my Instagram (which I don't have). And drinks are always expensive, especially at the most frequent spot, King's Arms, at £7.5/pint. Nonetheless, I'll probably still go a couple of times in the upcoming terms for social reps. It's important to pretend that I'm a human with worth. On the other hand, some of the society talks have been extremely interesting, with expert diplomats and lawyers and historians speaking at SSG, DiploSoc, and MESS. I'll keep attending most of the MESS talks and maybe a sporadic DiploSoc talk here and there. It's a shame that I lack the striver and background in me to actually crack those circles professionally.

Of all the extracurricular activities, Conservative Reading Group is the one I try attending every week, barring extenuating circumstances. Almost everyone else there is a graduate student versed in political theory, casually referring to their standardized reading lists, so I'm way out of my depth. I usually just go there to listen, but I keep going back. 

Cross-Country Club is great too. The first run, dodging vines and slipping through the muddy English countryside, was without a doubt the best run I've ever had, which I say as a former XCer. Even the sun beams down more poetically in England. Words don't do it justice, and I'm chasing that high in the upcoming terms. It's so much more beautiful and inspiring to run here compared to the tired suburban neighborhoods of Howard and Hampshire Counties.

I have also had some fun times, staying up to 3 or 4 AM, watching Game 6 and Game 7 of the World Series at St. Anne's College, walking back delirious with sleep. I've eaten at some restaurants, attended some formals, and watched films at the cinema with acquaintances. But I think the people I most smiled with were second-years at New College, most of them being my PPE classmates from Micro. These PPEists are Northerners, from Leeds and Manchester. They're funny and knowledgable and unpretentious—a breath of fresh air compared to what I was used to. I'd wager they're from working-class backgrounds, just like me. I get the feeling that they actually enjoy their subjects and don't have the sickly, superficial, network-y vibe. I really appreciate such authenticity. But having low expectations is important, because measuring friendships with the yardstick of "lifelong" is a recipe for disappointment. Paths cross fleetingly, and bygones become bygones.

### Conclusion

I've been able to stave off loneliness for the most part, despite my housemates being rather prominently engaged in deeply committed relationships. In my shoebox of a single room, I feel just fine, actually. This is because the gravity of my situation is never lost upon me. I will be here for roughly 250 days. Never again in my life will I have an analogous opportunity to wander around a beautiful place with virtually zero stressors: money, job, family, etc. (Graduate school at Oxford, like an MPhil in IR or Politics, would be a ridiculous waste of money, and the experience is far inferior to the undergraduate experience—the tutorial and collegiate system. Or so I tell myself.) Nor could I afford Oxford without the generous financial aid from Amherst. The ~150 remaining days are not enough, but I will try my very best to regret nothing.