---
title: "Reinvention?"
date: 2025-12-17
draft: false
---

There was a time before college when I was proud of my tastes across literature, music, television, and cinema. It was remarkably simple to invent myself for the very first time, as I was convinced that with the proper cultural consumption bundle, I could better understand myself and thereby the world. I mourned how my parents failed to confer upon me a cultural inheritance that I'd envied others take for granted—instead I had to navigate the wilderness as my own man.

I took this process seriously, though I wasn't very methodical in my approach: a classmate gushed about *Game of Thrones*, and I binged several seasons in half as many weeks; someone I once admired adored Lana Del Rey and Madeline Miller, so I parsed through *Born to Die*, *Ultraviolence*, *NFR!*, *The Song of Achilles*, and *Circe*, among other works, with *NFR!* remaining one of my all-time favorite albums to this day. I went to my first concerts, starry-eyed at the promise of adulthood ahead of me. *All Things Go 2022* compounded my love for Lorde, Mitski, and Bleachers. (Today, I no longer listen to any of them.) My Goodreads, Letterboxd, and Spotify flourished as consumption kept me sane through the worst days of post-Covid high school. I swapped video games and Twitch streams for books and films—surely this cultural cache would provide useful in my future.

But it didn't. Some of the stories deeply resonated with me, but years later, I don't remember how many of them made me feel. I can reread and rewatch them, but it isn't the same as the first time around. (Is it even worth the time sink?) Sometimes, I even lack the lived experiences to truly internalize what the author or artist is viscerally suggesting. Truthfully, I was no happier consuming art than I was playing multiplayer video games. Indeed, the books I read often made me more somber, more reticent. Superficially, I learned about the human condition secondhand: betrayal, love, loss, growth. But all this absorption was passive, and the transition to college slowly but surely accelerated my cultural decline via an explosion of stressors. Schoolwork hardly augmented my cultural paucity.

Fast forward to today, and I am culturally homeless. Maybe I am coping, but I find it childish how I once so identified myself by what I consumed. In retrospect, I may have been far too pretentious about my preferences than I deserved to be—today I am almost embarrassed to tell someone who my favorite artists used to be, and I'm back at square one, feeling the need to reinvent myself. But I should demur. Yes, the stories and characters meant so much to me back then, and I really ache for those simpler times in life, when I stifled all my real problems and insecurities via escapism. And I *know* that there's this substantial hole in my being from this loss of constant consumption, but I don't know if it's worth filling 1:1—I struggle to see the positive long-term impact of such endeavors. I can't even tell you why those years mattered so much to me. I think I *can* live with the residual knowledge—I don't need to constantly prove my "civilizing" repository to anybody. Whom must I perform for?

Consuming art is cheap. It doesn't *really* hurt—you don't really grow. It's not even real. Is the alternative enmeshing your being with those of others? Being pushed, perhaps even transformed, by new relationships? To some extent, that works—I know because I do so intermittently, most recently this Michaelmas Term at Oxford. I change myself for other people—sometimes it feels wonderful and at other times it's a chore. I try to be good, likable; at it's worst it feels like poor acting. Yet the experience is so very rewarding when it works. But on the flipside, almost everyone leaves. (I say this plainly, without bitterness.) All you really retain is how others changed you—how you allowed yourself be changed. Books, music, television, film—they always stay. Yet I didn't become an interesting person simply because I regurgitated things secondhand. Genuine maturity arises from lived experiences. And I think that's really worth pursuing more vigorously in 2026, several years since what I mistook for my *anni mirabiles*. In this case, late is better than never. Striking a balance should be the ideal: absolute escapism is fine at 16, but not so much when I'm pushing 21. Each passing day, I gain more and more independence and thereby imperative to craft my own future. It's only natural that I have felt cultural emptiness in the past year or two, but I must keep faith that the chasm will be bridged via more intrinsically meaningful, active lifestyle changes—far less obviously understood and quantified than simple consumption, but *really* mattering this time around for the long run.
