---
title: "Sense of Self"
date: 2026-03-22
draft: false
category: "reflections"
---

I don't know where my sense of self has gone. I am certain I had it a few years ago, and now it has left me. I struggle to claw it back. Sometimes I think it's possible to do so, but most of the time I accept its futility, despite the transgressiveness of lacking ambition before reaching the legal drinking age. Especially in America, especially as a descendant of immigrants–ambition should be everything, no?

When I was 16 and 17, life was very clear: I was simultaneously hateful and ashamed of myself while remaining adamant that I deserved better (a real paradox).[^1] I thought I could Jay Gatsby my way out of my small-dream suburb, whereby a very specific type of woman (albeit one *very* unlike Daisy Buchanan) could one day find me appealing enough if I worked hard enough and achieved enough. Someone could love me and save me, but this was contingent upon my value–a value I could earn if I fought for it. Because my parents' love was never self-evident,[^2] I deduced that I was simply unworthy of love at the moment, but I possessed the agency to change that! I don't recall ever expressly seeking my parents' validation, deeming their Bangladeshi-immigrant conceptions of worth far too parochial. I met them with derision: it was contemptible that they wanted me to be a doctor, failed to understand or value Amherst College, failed to understand or value *me*. "Goodbye" was more of a "good riddance" from yours truly. Instead, as I entered college, I vowed to derive validation solely from my perceivedly better peers, like a stray animal rescued by a picture-perfect family.

But the cracks emerged immediately. I suppressed the contradiction that I was both away from the physical hurting place yet still unhappy, for if I acknowledged this, what would justify the striving? I deemed this period simply interim before the payoff. I discerned the advantages those around me enjoyed by birth, cursing myself and my ancestors for failing to provide me the same. For some time, I was able to translate this resentment into maniacally hard work, especially in my second semester. I was firing on all cylinders: I read so much, I wrote so much, and I applied to some 70+ internships, ultimately achieving my top choice. I have never before or since been so motivated; the validation framework remained viable by deifying the dream woman flecked with the characteristic traits of those I had worshipped over the years. I'm aware of how pathetic this all sounds–that I lacked a "valid" motivation. Yet I think that's why [Denji from Chainsaw Man](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Denji_(Chainsaw_Man)) is so compelling: while he's indisputably a caricature, he represents something uncomfortable that many of us have lived with.

"Mayday, mayday, mayday": that best describes my sophomore year. The rat race was awful: I felt both uninspired by my classes and anxious that I would receive substandard grades in them (despite selecting for ease, abandoning the major that I had loved). The grass was never greener. I bemoaned my perceived mental inferiority, for I felt that I lacked the requisite academic background to succeed in anything academically rigorous. Some people had the luxury to take risks, comfortable from their birthright. I didn't.

Furthermore, I felt ashamed to share the same physical campus with those obviously superior to me (across numerous dimensions, obvious and not). By internalizing the inferiority into my very bones, there was not a chance that I could ever be worth validating, thus rendering my one-dimensional framework moot. No amount of work could save me. After all, a modicum of self-worth was the prerequisite: one can double one, but one cannot double zero. Only after recognizing that my mode of living was bankrupt did I surrender the remnants of my sense of self.

My ego has really subsided: the recession of my ambition has coincided with a nicer, calmer me, something extraordinary if you know who I was. I acted out in middle school–I was a real asshole. Then, in high school and at Amherst, I was hardly any better, remaining implicitly spiteful. In contrast, today I laugh more, I listen more (rather than merely pretending to), I'm less stubborn, and I let things go (interestingly, I've arrived at these positions secularly, despite associating these positive developments with *good, real* religious faith).[^3] Lacking a sense of self is a real double-edged sword: I don't feel sharp pangs of hurt anymore, because barbs can't exactly pierce through *nothing*. But because I've abandoned my old framework with no replacement, I lack even the illusion of personal agency that I once had. Today, I have little connection to anything. I can't be defined anymore: literate, academically driven, curious, asshole? These words simply describe somebody lost to time. Today, forces act upon me, and I respond with zero resistance. I am frightened by my lack of *fight*, which I also struggle to accept, because I used to think I could be special. Furthermore, the possible and negative consequences from my newfound mindset are delayed: I'm not directly suffering now, but I probably will with time. It's a real risk that I'm experimenting with.

I have had conversations with friends, and they have elucidated how abnormal my lack of self is. If I am less depressed now, why has the motivation failed to return equivalently? Some of my past and present friends are nakedly ambitious: they claim to call a spade a spade, and they chastize me for being so naive. The world is about power, domination, beauty, money, etc. Everything is transactional. Such people make me anywhere from slightly to extremely uncomfortable. (If they're right, true love from a partner is both fictitious for all and impossible for me–I'm fucked.) Others claim to pursue a real calling, and these are people I'm envious of. They want to create art for art's sake, or discover something novel, relishing the process of human accomplishment rather than its associated accolades. I'm not nearly brave enough or good enough to dream of thinking like that. I don't know if I can ever subscribe to either categorization, and whether such approaches are even fruitful. I need answers, and I need a new framework. "Find God" could be promising advice, but I don't feel ready for that yet (and I've at least half-heartedly tried). Please shoot me an [email](https://summitsarkar.com/contact/) if you have any ideas. Cheers.

[^1]: And if we assess my approach by its results, my mentality was strikingly effective, at least in the first-order: Amherst College '27.
[^2]: In books and in movies, parents expressed their affection via variations of "I love you" and "I'm proud of you." Parents hugged their children. Children felt comfortable sharing their problems with their parents, rather than feeling that their problems might be dismissed or weaponized. Nowadays, I've inferred that my parents attempt to communicate their love through actions rather than words, such as by paying for part of my college tuition. I try to view my parents with more grace, because raising kids is the hardest thing anyone can do. That doesn't mean I can or ever will mend our relationship, though.
[^3]: I am nowhere near perfect, lest you think that I think that I've become some sort of saint.